# Mobile Networks

## Bluetooth Networks
Sometimes refered as a PAN(Personal Area Network)

## RFID(Radio-Frequency identificaion)
Anything that needs to be tracked. Use Radar technology to transmit energy to the tag, ID is transmitted back. Some tag format can be active/powered

## NFC(Near field communication)
Builds on RFID. Usually used on payment systems, helps with Bluetooth pairing, access token

Is possible to capture remotely, jam the signal, relay/replay attack, stole/lost phone

## IR(Infrared)
Control your entertainment center. File transfers are possible, other phones can control it

## USB (Universal Serial Bus)
Physical connectivity to your mobile device

## GPS
Precise navigation. Determines location ased on timing differences. Need to see at least 4 satellites

# Mobile Device Management
Centralized management of the mobile devices.

## Application management
Manage application use through *allow lists*. 
## Content management
- MCM(Mobile Content Management)
	Secure access to data
	Protect data from outsiders
- File sharing and viewing
	On-site content(Sharepoint,file servers)
	Cloud-based storage(Office 365, Box)
- DLP
## Remote wipe
- Remove all data from your mobile device
- Connect and wipe from the web
- Always have a backup

## Geolocation
- Precise tracking details
- Most phones provide an option to disable

## Geofencing
- Some MDMs allow for this
- Used for cameras, authentication,…

## Screen lock
## Push notification services
- No user intervention
- Control of displayed notifications can be managed from the MDM
## Passwords and PINs
- Mobile devices use multiple authentication methods
- Recovery can be initiated from the MDM
## Biometrics
- Availability is managed through the MDM. Can be managed per application
## Context-aware authentication
- Combine multiple contexts, where you login, where you normally frequent, other devices,…
## Containerization
- Separate enterprise mobile apps and data
	Create a virtual “container” for company data
	Refers to mobile device storage segmentation(not something like Kubernetes on PC)
## FDE(Full Device Encryption)
- Scramble all of the data on the mobile device
- There is no recovery, often encryption key is backed on the MDM

# Mobile device security

## MicroSD HSM
An HSM designed for mobile devices

## Unified Endpoint Management (UEM)
- Manage mobile and non-mobile devices
- Apps can be used across different platforms
- All of these devices can be used from anywhere

## Mobile Application Management (MAM)
- Provision, update and remove apps
- Create an enterprise app catalog
- Monitor application use
- Remotely wipe application data
## SEAndroid 
SELinux in Android OS. 
- Protect privileged Android system daemons
- Change from DAC(Discretionary Access Control) to MAC(Mandatory Access Control)
- Centralized policy configuration

# Mobile device enforcement
- Rooting → Android
- Jailbreaking → Apple iOS
- Carrier unlocking → Most phones are locked to a carrier, if your carrier allows it you can unlock the phone. Moving to another carrier can circumvent the MDM

## Firmware OTA updates
Updates are provided over the air. May not be agood thing, the MDM can manage what OTA are allowed

## Camera use
Camera use can be controlled by the MDM

## SMS/MMS
MDM can enable or disable SMS/MMS

## External media
Limit data written or prevent the use of them from the MDM

## USB OTG(USB On-The-Go)
Connect mobile devices directly together
Mobile device can be both a host and a device

## Recording microphone
A legal liability. Disable or geo-fence from MDM

## Geotagging / GPS tagging
Adds your location to document metadata. Every document may contain geotagged information

## WiFi Direct/ ad hoc
Connect wireless devices directly, without an access point
Wi-FI Direct simplifies the process. Common to see in home devices

## Hotspot/tethering
Turn your phone into a Wi-Fi hotspot. Dependent on phone type and provider. May provide inadvertent access to an internal network

## Payment methods
Bypassing primary authentication would allow payment.

# Mobile Deployment
- BYOD (Bring Your Own Device)
	Employee owns the device
	Difficult to secure

- COPE(Corporate Owned Personally Enabled
	Company buys the device, used as both a corporate device and a personal device
	Organization keeps full control of the device
	Information is protected using corporate policies
	Similar to COPE is CYOD(Choose Your Own Device) → You get to decide which device you are going to use and company buys it for you
- Corporate-owned
	Company owns the device. Not for personal use. Very specific security requirements
- VDI/VMI
	The apps are separated from the mobile device, the data as well
	Data is stored securely, centralized
	Works really well for application development

# Cloud Security Controls
# HA across zones
- Availability zones (AZ)
	Isolated locations withing a cloud region (geographical location)
	AZ commonly spans across multiple region
	Each AZ has independent power,HVAC, and networking
	Use load balancers to provide seamless HA
## Resource policies
- Identity and access management (IAM)
	Who gets