# Load Balancing

- TCP/SSL offload
- Caching
- Prioritization
- Content Switching

# # Scheduling
- Round-Robin
- Weighted round-robin
- Dynamic round-robin → Monitor and distribute to the freest server 
- Active/Active load balancing → All servers active
- Affinity → Same request to same server the user has already used
- Active/passive load balancing → Some servers active, others are on standby
# Network Segmentation

## Physical
- Devices are physically separate (air gap)
- Must be connected to provide communication
## Logical
- VLANs → Cannot without a Layer 3 device / router
## Virtual

Zero Trust → Everything must be verified

# VPNs
Encrypted data traversing a public network
Concentrator → Encryption/decryption access device.Often integrated into a firewall
## SSL VPN
- Uses port tcp/443
- No big VPN clients
- Authenticate users means no neeed for digital certificates or shared passwords
- Can be run from browser or light client
## HTML5
- Create a VPN tunnel without need for a separate VPN application
## Modes
- Full tunnel
	All communications go through the VPN concentrator
- Split tunnel
	Some information can go outside the tunnel, some go to the VPN concetrator
- Site to Site
	Communication between two different VPNs. Almost always on. Firewalls often act as VPN  concentrators
- L2TP
	Layer 2 Tunneling Protocol. Connecting sites over a layer 3 network as if they were connected at layer 2. Commonly used with IPSec (L2TP for tunnel, IPSec for encryption)
- IPSec
	Security for layer 3
	Transport mode → IP header added at front and encrypt the data. Doesnt protect IP
	Tunnel mode → Both IP and data encrypted
	Authentication header → Hash of the packet and a shared key
	ESP → Where transport and tunnel mode are used. Adds a header, a traile and an Integrity Check Value
# Port security
It refers to the physical side of port security

- Broadcast storm control
	Limit number of broadcasts per second
	Can often be used to contol multicast and unknown unicast traffic
	Manage by specific values or percentage
- Loop protection
	STP(Spanning tree protocol)
	BPDU guard → Spanning tree control protocol. If a BPDU frame is seen on a PortFast configured interface, shut down the interface
- DHCP snooping
	IP tracking on a layer 2 device(switch)
- MAC filtering
	Limit access through MAC. More of a administrative tool

# Secure Networking
- DNSSEC
- Out-of-band management 
- QoS(Quality of Service) → Describes the process of controlling traffic flows
- Taps and port mirrors to intercept network traffic
	Taps → Disconnect the link, put a tap in the middle. Can be active or passive tap
	Port mirror → Software-based tap. Limited functionality, but can work well in a pinch
- Monitoring services → SoC
- FIM (File Integrity Monitoring) 
	Monitor important operating system and application files
# Firewalls
## Network-based firewalls
- Filter traffic by port number (Traditional) vs NGFW firewalls (Application)
- Most firewalls cant act as layer 3 devices (routers)
## Stateless firewall
- Does not keep track or traffic flows. Each packet examined individually
## Stateful firewall
- Remember the “state” of the session
## UTM
- Unified Threat Management/ Web security gateway
- URL filter / Content inspection
- Malware inspection
- Spam filter
- CSU/DSU
- Router, Switch
- Firewall
- IDS/IPS
- Bandwith shaper
- VPN endpoint
## NGFW
- Can be called also: Application layer gateway, Stateful multilayer inspection, Deep packet inspection
- Control traffic flows based on the application
- IPS
- Content filtering

## WAF
- Applies rules to HTTP/HTTPS conversations
- Allow or deny based on expected input

## Firewall rules
- ACLs (Access control lists)
	Allow or dissallow traffic based on tuples(Groupings of categories)
	Usually top-to-bottom priority


# Network Access Control

## Posture assesment
- Health checks
	Persistent agents → Permanently installed onto a system. Periodic updates may be required
	Dissolvable agents → No installation is required. Terminates when no longer required
	Agentless NAC → Integrated with AD. Checks are made during login and logoff. Can’t be scheduled


# Proxy server
Sits between the users and the external network receives the user requests and sends the request on their behalf. Useful for caching information, access control, URL filtering, content scanning. Applications may need to know how to use the proxy. Some proxies are invisible (transparent proxies)
- Forward Proxy
	From user to the Internet
- Reverse Proxy
	From Internet to the user
- Open proxy
	A third-party, uncontrolled proxy. Often used to circumvent existing security controls

