# Boot integrity

Secure Boot → Trusted Boot → Measured Boot

# # UEFI BIOS Secure Boot

- BIOS includes the manufacturer’s public key
- Digital signature checked during  BIOS update
- Prevents unauthorized writes to the flash
- Secure Boot verifies the bootloader that must be signed with a trusted certificate or manually approved the digital certificate.
# # Trusted Boot
- Bootloader verifies the OS kernel. A  corrupted kernel will stop the process
- The kernel verifies all of the other startup components and before loading the drivers, ELAM(Early Launch Anti-Malware) starts.
# # Measured Boot
- UEFI stores a hash of the firmware, boot drivers and everything else loaded during Secure Boot and Trusted Boot process. Stored in the TPM 
- REMOTE ATTESTATION: Device provides an operational report to a verification server. Encrypted and digitally signed. Attestation server identifies and manages the changes.


# Application Security
# # Dynamic analysis(fuzzing)
- Send random input to an application
# # Secure cookies
- Not executable, not risky unless someones gets access to them. Secure cookies have an attribute that the browser will only send it over HTTPS
# # HTTP Secure Headers
- Enforce HTTPS comms
- Only allows scripts, stylesheets or images from local site
- Prevent data from loading into an inline frame 
# # Static code analyzers
- Static Application Security Testing (SAST)
- Not everything can be identified through analysis
- Still have to verify each finding


# Application hardening
- Minimize the attack surface
- Open ports and services
	Control access with a firewall
	Unused or unknown services
	Applications with broad port ranges
	Use Nmap or similar to verify

- Registry
	Third-party tools can show registry changes

- Disk encryption
	Prevent access to application data files
	FDE → Full disk encryption
	SED (OPAL standard) → Comes with hardware

- OS hardening
	Updates,user accounts,network access and security

- Patch management

